---
title: Day 5
date: 2023-03-01
---

Welcome back to the continuous learning of Go Language !!

Let's continue from **Slices**.

If you remember we discussed on Slices still have the reference to it's original array. Basically, it means that all changes on the slice array are gonna reflect on the original array.

For more clarification, let's see how we can make a slice and what happens to parent array when we modify an element in the slice? 

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	example := [4]string{
		"We",
		"are not",
		"learning",
		"Go",
	}
	fmt.Println(example) //[We are not learning Go]

	a := example[0:2]
	b := example[1:3]
	fmt.Println(a, b) // [We are not] [are not learning]

	b[0] = "are"
	fmt.Println(a, b) // [We are] [are learning]
	fmt.Println(example) // [We are learning Go]
}
```

In the above code snippet, when we change the element of the 'b' slice, it even got reflected in original **example** array.

A slice has two properties **length** and **capacity**.

**Length** is similar to size of an array that states how many number of elements are present in the array, which we generally see in many programming languages.  

**Capacity of a slice** means number of elements in the underlying array, **counting from the first element** in the slice.

For length, we use ```len(arr_name)```
For capacity, we use ```cap(s)```

We will see an example and that gives you more practical understanding on the length and capacity part.

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	s := []int{11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21}
	fmt.Println(s, len(s), cap(s)) // [11 13 15 17 19 21] 6 6

	s = s[:0]
	fmt.Println(s, len(s), cap(s)) // [] 0 6

	s = s[:4]
	fmt.Println(s, len(s), cap(s)) // [11 13 15 17] 4 6

	s = s[2:]
	fmt.Println(s, len(s), cap(s)) // [15 17] 2 4 
	
	s = s[0:4]
	fmt.Println(s, len(s), cap(s)) // [15 17 19 21] 4 4
}

```
I attached output statements beside the print statements respectively in the snippet that gives more understanding on **length** and **capacity**.

We always should have a glance on zero value of each datatype. For example, an int has zero, string has '' and boolean has False. Similarly, the zero value of a slice is nil.
Both length and capacity are zero and it does not have any parent/original/underlying array assosciated with it.

There is another way to create dynamically sized arrays with the help of builtin **make** function. It takes in three parameters that define what type of
elements you want to be in the array, length of the array and capcity of the array. Capacity is an optional parameter.

In terms of code, just do
```
arr := make([]int, 0, 5) // len(b)=0, cap(b)=5
```

And then similar to 2D arrays, we can make slices within slices. 

```
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"strings"
)

func main() {
	// Create a tic-tac-toe board.
	board := [][]int{
		[]int{1, 2, 3},
		[]int{4, 5, 6},
		[]int{7, 8, 9},
	}
}
```

You might have heard of append function whose duty is to append an element to the list/array. 
 Similarly, in Go if when you need to append an element just do 
 ```
 var arr []int
 arr = append(arr, 0)
 ```
 The above line appends zero to the arr named array.
 
 When ever we have an use case of iterating over the array, then we can utilize for range loop.

```
package main

import "fmt"

var arr = []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8}

func main() {
	for i, v := range arr {
		fmt.Printf(i, v)
	}
}
```

The above code goes over each element in the array and prints out it's index and value.

Then coming to the topic which was **challenging** interms of concept understanding and how to implement this data structure in Go lang.

That's **Maps**

This is almost similar to hashMap in Java and Dictionaries in Python. In Python, you never need to worry about the data type you use, but in Java you need to specify what data type is your key and what data type is your value and the whole structure of them. 

Similarly, in Go lang I could not understand how to follow the approach in creating Maps and implementing and utilizing it. 

However, I overcame this challenge by doing couple of leetcode problems in Go lang which needed maps but what I did was, I wrote the solution in Python first and then converted each line into Go lang. 

That seems funny but that made my life easy now and I will show case how to initialize map and then how to iterate and extract or change values in it. 




