---
title: Day 2
date: 2023-02-08
---

Let's dive into loops(for, while, do while) and conditional(if, else) statements.

**The only loop in Go: "For loop"**

Generally, in other languages you would see while loop along with the for loop, But Go has only one and that is for loop.
Let's see an example of for loop and then understand how can we write while loop with the help of for loop.

Similar to the for loops in older languages(Java, Python, C, etc.,), even Go has the same three components:

1) the init statement
2) the condition expression
3) the post statement

But, here init and post statements are optional. If you don't need them then dont use them.

Eg: Let's say we need to print out all numbers from 1 to 10(including 10). Then we can write our for loop as follows:

<code>
package main
import "fmt"

func main() {
for i := 1; i <= 10; i++ {
    fmt.Println(i)
}}
</code>
  
**Turning for to while loop:**
  
Now, let's say you want this to write like a while loop. You can initialize variable 'i' before the for loop and then as init and post statements are
optional, you can ignore them and just have the condition expression.
<code>
package main
import "fmt"

func main() {
	i := 1
	for i <= 10 {
		fmt.Println(i)
		i += 1
	}
}
</code>

**If Statements**

  Previously, we printed out all the numbers from 1 to 10. Now, if we need only odd numbers from 1 to 10. Then we need a conditional statement.
  We will directly see how to write if statements with this example.
<code>
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	for i := 1; i <= 10; i++ {
	    if i % 2 != 0{
		fmt.Println(i)
		}
	}
}
</code>  

We can also add a statement to get executed before evaluating the if condition like below and then also add if you need to perform any operation in else condition.
<code>
  high := 10
  if curr := 5; curr < high {
		fmt.Println(high)
	} else {
    fmt.Println(curr)
  }
</code>  
  
**Let's also have a look over the Switch statements.**

Switch statements are better compared to multiple if-else statements. They save us from time, discrepancy and make the code look clean.
These will evaluate each one from top to bottom and whenever it gets the match it executes the specific condition inside it and then break over there.
 
We can use Switch statements like:
  
  <code> 
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"runtime"
)

func main() {
	fmt.Print("My favorite state is")
	switch city := "Missouri"; city {
	case "Missouri":
		fmt.Println("Missouri")
	case "San Francisco":
		fmt.Println("San Francisco")
	default:
		fmt.Println("Pick a random one")
	}
}
</code>
  
**Defer Statements**
  
At first glance, I could not even understand what this statements are doing and why do we need them?
  
"Go Playground" says that **A defer statement defers the execution of a function until the surrounding function returns.**
I found a couple of nice blog posts on it and some examples. I need to go through them and understand and will make it easy to understand for newbies in the future.

Till now, I feel it's a good learning curve and many more complicated things ahead, but I will make sure to explain them in an easy way.
  

  

