---
title: "Mini-Project Reflection"
date: 2023-03-30
---
From my previous blogs, we learnt various things in Go language. For example, how to write methods, for loops, defer, panic statements and many more.

There are four more people who are learnig Go language along with me for Software Engineering Course. So, we got paired up together to build a mini-project where
each of us can put in 10-12 hours.

We built Library management System which is hosted on private repo currently. Our main was to perform CRUD operations with Go Lang

**What skills/knowledge that you I learned earlier in the semester were useful in this project?**
1) How to write methods?
2) How to import or export them such that they can utilized in other file.
3) Pointer
4) Defer and Panic Statements

**What additional skills/knowledge I had to learn to complete your tasks?**
1) How to create API's using Go lang
2) How to utilize PUT, GET, POST, DELETE method mappings in Go lang
3) Integrating a database(we used MySQL) to Go lang
4) How to make this backend to communicate with widgets or frontend part which my team mates bult

**The biggest challenge I faced during mini-project** is when making the communication between API's and frontend or widgets which my team mates built. I took a 
pleanty amount of time to understand and build API's but the challenging part was bridging the communication and letting the frontend to digest the built API.
Going through various projects which already built on Go lang and couple of youtube videos has shown a path for me in achieving this. I am attaching the code [link](https://github.com/SLUSE-Spring2022/miniproject-go/blob/main/main.go) but as its a private repo
, it might not give you acees currently.
