---
title: Day 4
date: 2023-02-22
---

Welcome back to the GoLang Learning Blog. 

This week we are going to look at the topic which I was afraid of till today. And that's one of the reasons which made me not touch C++ in my entire life.
You might have guessed the topic, if not let me reveal it....... It's The **POINTERS**.

**Learning Pointers was the biggest challenge** for me from my first day of coding. I had gone through various examples and cleared many exercises this week to
understand Pointers in GoLang. If you are the same person, who hates pointers then get some patience and be with me till the blog ends and I promise that you
are going to love the pointers in the end. This week with the help of Go Playground and with many examples and exercises from the internet I turned my most
challenging topic into one of my favorite topics in the Software World. Hope, you too change after going through this blog.

**Firstly, Whats a pointer or What does it do in the programming world?**

From the name pointer itself, you might have understood that pointer is an item that points to something. I am not sure if every language has a Pointer concept.
Anyways, Go has pointers and it points to the value at a specified address. It just holds the memory address where the value resides.

The type \*T is a pointer to a T value. It's zero value is nil.
Let's say we want to create a variable named 'p' with type int in Go lang. Then just use ```var p *int```.

Then let's say we want to assosciate this pointer to any address which has already value resided in it then use ```p = &name_of_the_variable```. 
The & operator generates a pointer to its operand. If we had a ```random_var := 1``` and want pointer p to point here. The just use ```p = &random_var```.

The \* operator denotes the pointer's underlying value. 

And then you have a term called **dereferencing** which means if you want to change the value of random_var which we created above through the pointer, then just do 
```*p = 2```.

That simple it is. Let's dive in more now.

Let's understand another term or data structure called **Structs**.

A struct is a collection of fields. You can utilize struct when you already know the structure of the field. If you want to create an array with each index having a 
defined pair of two integers, then we can utilize struct. Don't think of how to create arrays now, I will help you to create and initialize them in the next steps.

To create a struct with the name int_pair, we do 

```
type intpair struct {
  X int
  Y int
}
``` 

and if we need to return or print it, then just do ```fmt.Println(intpair{1, 1})``` .

Now, you have a struct created and available for you. 
Let's assign it to a variable by writing 
```
i := intpair{1, 2}
```
Now, to access the variable of that struct, we need to use the dot operation if we need the value of X in this intpair then 

```
fmt.Println(i.X)
```
If you need to re-assign a new value to that X, then just do ```i.X = 25```.

**STRUCT POINTER**

Let's combine both structs and pointers now. 

```
package main

import "fmt"

type intpair struct {
	X int
	Y int
}

func main() {
	i := intpair{1, 2}
	p := &i
	p.X = 25
	fmt.Println(*p)
}

```
It's gonna print {25, 2}. That's how you are gonna access and change the required struct's value using a pointer.

That's how short and sweet pointers are and they are very useful in various ways. I will show those in the upcoming weeks. I understand that there is more theory than code regarding pointers.

I will end this week blog with an introduction to the Array Data structure and how are they used in the Go language.

**Arrays**

A Simple way to create an Array with 5 integers in Go lang is to write 

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	var arr [5]int
	fmt.Println(a) //Of course, its gonna print an empty array []
}

```

An array's length is part of its type, so arrays cannot be resized. But there is another way to work around arrays called Slices.

What exactly are **Slices** and how they are helpful for us?

An array has a fixed size. According to the Go Playground: A slice, on the other hand, is a dynamically-sized, flexible view into the elements of an array

If we have an array of size 6, and you can extract only those consecutive elements you need like if you need three elements from the second index then 

```
arr[2: 2 + 3] // gives you the array with elements from the second index till the fifth index(the fifth index is excluded).
```

And the craziest thing is these slices that you create have references to the original arrays. That's one of the reasons why we learned pointers before
jumping into arrays.

We will dwell more into Slices and their uses in the coming week.

In the meantime, think about whether changing the elements of a slice modifies the parent or original array.


