---
title: Day 1
date: 2023-02-01
---

I did not want to install Go lang straight away on my system. So, I explored the other ways to learn Go through internet and 
figured out <a href="https://go.dev/tour/list"> "A Go Playground" </a> which has an outline on how to start with Go and become familiar with Go. 

I started with <a href="https://go.dev/tour/basics/1">this</a> 17 slides play list and got to know about <b>Packages, Imports, Exported Names, Functions, 
Multiple Returns, Named Returns, Creating variables, Basic types available in Go </b>.

Currently, I am not worried on how to create a Go file and execute it but just wanted to understand the basic parts to code it up.

Lot's of tallking is done, let's dive into code and see what basic things I have for you.

<b> 1)Packages and Imports</b>


Each and every Go program is made up of packages. On the similar lines of Java and Python(If you know them) even Go Programs start running in <code>main</code>package.
Generally we use "fmt" package to print out to console(like print statement in Python). 

Starting with Hello world, we can understand how to import required packages and how to print out to the console

<a href="https://gist.github.com/aithaprasad/cae7b386f4029369b2d295060c8028f5">Hello World Program</a>

<b> 2)Exported Names</b>


In Go, if we need to know whether a function is called from another package we just to know whether the first letter of it is Capital or not. If it's a capital
letter than it is exported or else not. That simple it is !

For example to print out to console we know that we should use <code> fmt.Println("Print whatever you need") </code>. The Capital letter in "Print" indicates that
Println function is situated in another package.

<b> 3)Functions </b>


<a href="https://gist.github.com/aithaprasad/cea91bc38fe6c090604a992b6d001722"> This </a> has a basic function which gets called from main function. And this function has
zero arguments.


<b> 4)Creating and Initializing Variables </b>


Let's say, you need to create a variable 'i' then just use <code> var i int </code> and, if you need to initialize it with 1 then var i int = 1 .
